Contributing
============

Miro is a Free Software [^1] project. It is built, supported and
maintained by a community of volunteers, users, and developers
contributing their time and skills.

**This is your project, too!**

Everyone plays a role in Miro development---we all help to make it
better. You don't have to be a programmer to contribute to make Miro
better!

This chapter covers various ways you can help the Miro project.

Contributing through OpenHatch
------------------------------

Do you want to contribute but find that the Miro project is too
difficult to get involved in?

[OpenHatch](http://openhatch.org/) is a web-site that helps people like
you who are interested in contributing connect with projects like Miro
that are complex and non-trivial to figure out how to participate in.

If you're interested in contributing, I encourage you to go to [Miro
project page](https://openhatch.org/+projects/Miro) and click on the big
green button that says "I want to help". Then we'll contact you and help
you help us!

Evangelize
----------

We don't spend money on marketing---Miro's success is based solely on
word-of-mouth and news generated by releases.

Using Miro and telling everyone you know about it helps the project
tremendously. Some of these people will become users. Some will become
contributors. Some will help translate. Some will contribute funds for
continued development. Some will tell their friends and family.

We encourage you to download Miro, copy it, burn it to a CD, put it on a
thumbdrive, and give it to friends and family.

Write about your experience with Miro. What works for you? What doesn't?
Which podcasts are you watching and listening to? How do they enrich
your life and the lives of those around you?

Buy a Miro t-shirt and wear it. Tell people how the future of Open Video
affects us all and how ensuring its success helps to make the world a
better place.

Tell your favorite podcast publishers to add "add to Miro" buttons to
their podcast sites.

Download the source code, print it out, and wallpaper your favorite
building with it [^2].

Support your friends using Miro and help them help us help them by
sending in bug reports and feature requests or writing posts in the
forums.

Reporting bugs
--------------

When you encounter bugs in Miro, report them. Sometimes people encounter
problems that other people encounter, but if no one reports it, we might
not be aware of it.

A "bug" is a generic term covering an aspect of Miro that needs
attention. This could be any of the following:

-   a crash report
-   something that could be improved
-   something that's horribly wrong
-   support for something Miro doesn't support but should
-   a new feature

Our bug system is at
[http://bugzilla.pculture.org](http://bugzilla.pculture.org)/ .

When submitting a bug report remember that the following are all true:

1.  **There are a million of you and a handful of us.** There's a very
    small number of paid staff working on Miro and supporting users.
    Right now, there are 6 developers and 1 QA.

    Help us help you by doing as much of the footwork as you can.

2.  **Getting to your bug might take time.** We work through bugs as
    quickly as we can, but many bugs are non-trivial and take time to
    look into. If you submit a bug and can't work on it yourself, then
    it'll sit around until someone has time to look into it. Sometimes
    this means that your bug will go unanswered for a while.

    It's also possible we don't have the equipment or configuration that
    allows us to reproduce your bug. In these situations, it's very
    difficult for us to solve the bug unless we get lucky. If this
    happens, we'll let you know.

3.  **Be considerate.** People who work on Miro are doing the best they
    can. Being easy to work with makes it more likely someone will want
    to work with you on your problem.

4.  **Use an email address that let's us contact you.** If you use an
    email address that you then throw away and we have questions, then
    those questions will go unanswered. After a couple of weeks with no
    response, we'll probably resolve the bug as INCOMPLETE because we
    don't have the information we need to continue working on it.

We use Bugzilla as our bug tracker. We know it's oriented to developers
and not to end users. If you find it overly complicated, find another
way to report your issue.

Test
----

We spend a lot of time testing Miro. Even so, it's impossible for us to
test Miro in all the configurations on all the platforms with all the
various video hardware and other complex configurations. Helping us test
is immensely useful and directly impacts the quality of Miro releases.

There are two ways you can help us test Miro. The first is through a
series of unit tests that exist alongside the source code. These unit
tests test a small amount of Miro, but do so in a programmatic way.

The second and more important way we test Miro is running through the
many tests that Janet has put together. Often running through a test is
a 5-minute endeavor. Having many people run through the same tests
covering different operating system and hardware configurations gives us
a good feel for how well those parts of the code are working.
Comprehensive user-interface tests are very important in a desktop
application.

Whether it's testing a nightly build to see if a specific bug has been
fixed or testing a release candidate to make sure it's solid for a final
release, Miro wouldn't exist without the community of volunteer testers.

Additionally, testers see new features and bug fixes before they're
available in final releases. If you're interested in the bleeding-edge
of Miro development, then you'll be interested in testing.

If you're interested in helping us test, visit [Janet's Miro testing
blog](http://pculture.org/devblogs/mirotesting/about/).

Translate
---------

Miro is translated by the community. You can help out by translating
strings in your language through the [Launchpad
interface](https://translations.launchpad.net/democracy).

Translations are synced into the Miro codebase periodically during the
development cycle as well as just before releases.

Coding
------

Miro is a Free Software project and we encourage everyone to help us fix
bugs, implement new features, and fine-tune the existing code. It's
often the case that there are things we want to do to make Miro better,
but those things end up sitting in someone's queue for long periods of
time because we lack the time and resources to get to everything.

If you're interested in helping to code, visit the [Miro development
Center](https://develop.participatoryculture.org/trac/democracy/).

If you're just getting started, look at bugs in our [Bugzilla
bug-tracker](http://bugzilla.pculture.org/) tagged "bite-sized".

If you want to get involved, but need a mentor or a helping hand, hop on
the `#miro-hackers` IRC channel on freenode.net. If you don't know what
that means, send an email to `will dot guaraldi at pculture dot org` and
tell Will that you want to help out, but don't know where to start.

Contribute money
----------------

Most small projects require paid staff whose primary job it is to
facilitate development and provide continuity for the project as
contributors come and go. Without paid staff to keep things going, small
projects sometimes run out of momentum, stagnate, and cease to be
meaningful.

Participatory Culture Foundation is a 501(c)3 non-profit dedicated to
ensuring that our political, social and cultural systems are open and
democratic for everyone. A huge part of this mission is ensuring the
success of Open Video.

You can see more about our mission and the projects we work on at [our
website](http://pculture.org/).

Contributions are an important way we raise money to fund further
development. Contributing money to PCF directly impacts continued
development on Miro.

Donate at
<[http://www.miroguide.com/donate](http://www.miroguide.com/donate)\>.

[^1]: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free\_software](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software)

[^2]: That's actually probably a bad idea. Miro |version| contains
    58,273 lines of code. Assuming 80 lines of code per page, that'd be
    1064 pages. If those pages were 8 1/2 by 11, then that's 691 square
    feet. That's enough to cover the walls of a room that's 8 feet tall
    by 9 feet long by 9 feet wide.

    Instead of doing that, you could [donate to help us make media more
    open](https://www.miroguide.com/donate).
