Introduction
============

What is Miro?
-------------

Miro is an amazing open-source, non-profit video player.

**Works with your current music library**

It's very easy to switch from iTunes to Miro---without any copying. Just
point Miro to your music and video folders and those files will appear.
If you don't like Miro (impossible!), nothing's changed.

**Converts and syncs to Android**

You'd have to be crazy to use a music player that doesn't sync to your
phone. Miro is simply the best music and video player for Android phones
and tablets.

**Buy music and apps from inside Miro**

The Amazon MP3 store is built-in to Miro. Buy, download, and listen,
seamlessly. Buy Android apps from the Amazon or Google app stores and
they will sync to your device.

**Download and play almost any video**

Do you still use separate programs to download, play music, play videos,
and sync to your phone? Miro plays almost any video or music format and
downloads from YouTube, podcasts, Amazon, and bittorrent.

**Convert any video**

You can convert almost any video with Miro into mp4/h264, with presets
for almost any device you can think of (including iPhones, iPods, iPads,
Android phones, and more).

**Share Your Media on your Network**

When two Miro's are on the same wifi network, they can stream and
transfer music and videos to each other. It's the easiest way to watch a
video or play music upstairs if the file is downstairs.

**Open-source---don't lock yourself in!**

Unlike some other media players (cough, cough), Miro is not trying to
run your life! Not only is Miro 100% free and open-source, it's made by
a [non-profit organization](http://pculture.org/). You don't need to be
locked down by one corporation to have a great media experience.

**Ultra-fast torrent downloading**

Miro has some of the fastest bittorrent downloading in the world, built
in. Try us head-to-head with any bittorrent application!

**But it's not about the features!**

Miro has a lot of features, but that's not what matters---it's the
experience. Miro is a simple, beautiful, unified way to download,
organize, and watch videos and listen to music. And it's totally free.

Who works on Miro?
------------------

The bulk of the implementation/programming is done by staff members of
Participatory Culture Foundation with contributions from people like
you.

Translations are contributed by volunteers using the [Launchpad
translations interface](https://translations.launchpad.net/democracy).

Testing and QA is done by Janet and people like you who volunteer your
time and equipment to help make Miro bug-free.


Who is Participatory Culture Foundation?
----------------------------------------

[Participatory Culture Foundation](http://pculture.org/) is a 501(c)3
non-profit based in Worcester, MA, USA. We were founded in 2005 with a
mission to build tools and services that give people more ways to engage
in their culture.


